Add Getting started guide (#71)
slackapi/bolt-python: docs/_tutorials/getting_started.md

```shell
ngrok http 3000
```

![Running ngrok](../assets/ngrok.gif "Running ngrok")

The output should show a generated URL that you can use (we recommend the one that starts with `https://`). This URL will be the base of your request URL, in this case `https://8e8ec2d7.ngrok.io`.

---
</details>

Now you have a public-facing URL for your app that tunnels to your local machine. The Request URL that you use in your app configuration is composed of your public-facing URL combined with the URL your app is listening on. By default, Bolt apps listen at `/slack/events` so our full request URL would be `https://8e8ec2d7.ngrok.io/slack/events`.

> ⚙️Bolt uses the `/slack/events` endpoint to listen to all incoming requests (whether shortcuts, events, or interactivity payloads). When configuring endpoints within your app configuration, you'll append `/slack/events` to all request URLs.

Under the **Enable Events** switch in the **Request URL** box, go ahead and paste in your URL. As long as your Bolt app is still running, your URL should become verified.

After your request URL is verified, scroll down to **Subscribe to Bot Events**. There are four events related to messages:

> - `message.channels` listens for messages in public channels that your app is added to

Reviewer: I just created this ticket but we don't need to work on it in this PR. https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-js/issues/627

                "type": "section",
                "text": {
                    "type": "mrkdwn",
                    "text": f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
                },
                "accessory": {
                    "type": "button",
                    "text": {
                        "type": "plain_text",
                        "text": "Click Me"
                    },
                    "action_id": "button_click"
                }
            }
        ],
        text=f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
    )

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

The value inside of `say()` is now an object that contains an array of `blocks`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback for notifications and accessibility.

You'll notice in the button `accessory` object, there is an `action_id`. This will act as a unique identifier for the button so your app can specify what action it wants to respond to.

> > 💡 The [Block Kit Builder](https://api.slack.com/tools/block-kit-builder) is an simple way to prototype your interactive messages. The builder lets you (or anyone on your team) mockup messages and generates the corresponding JSON that you can paste directly in your app.

Reviewer: Nice to have a link to Block Kit Builder here! `https://api.slack.com/tools/block-kit-builder ` is now redirected to `https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder`. Using `https://api.slack.com/tools/block-kit-builder` may be safer in the long run.

Author: Great catch! I've fixed this in commit 7d10d7f and will also update the `bolt-js` guide.

Reviewer: Thanks!

>Using https://api.slack.com/tools/block-kit-builder may be safer in the long run.

I just noticed this sentence was incorrect ... but thanks for understanding this 😅

def message_hello(message, say):
    # say() sends a message to the channel where the event was triggered
    say(
        blocks=[
            {
                "type": "section",
                "text": {
                    "type": "mrkdwn",
                    "text": f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
                },
                "accessory": {
                    "type": "button",
                    "text": {
                        "type": "plain_text",
                        "text": "Click Me"
                    },
                    "action_id": "button_click"
                }
            }
        ],
        text=f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
    )

@app.action("button_click")
def action_button_click(body, ack, say):
    # Acknowledge the action
    ack()
    say(f"<@{body['user']['id']}> clicked the button")

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

You can see that we used `app.action()` to listen for the `action_id` that we named `button_click`. If you restart your app and click the button, you'll see a new message from your app that says you clicked the button.

---

### Next steps

> You just built your first [Bolt for Python app](https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/tree/main/samples/getting_started)! 🎉

Reviewer: @mwbrooks Are you going to work on this? Or do you want me to add files there? https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/tree/main/samples/getting_started

Author: @seratch the source code is part of this pull request :)

Once you authorize the installation, you'll land on the **OAuth & Permissions** page and see a **Bot User OAuth Access Token**.

![OAuth Tokens](../assets/bot-token.png "Bot OAuth Token")

> 💡 Treat your token like a password and [keep it safe](https://api.slack.com/docs/oauth-safety). Your app uses it to post and retrieve information from Slack workspaces.

---

### Setting up your local project
With the initial configuration handled, it's time to set up a new Bolt project. This is where you'll write the code that handles the logic for your app.

If you don’t already have a project, let’s create a new one. Create an empty directory:

```shell
mkdir first-bolt-app
cd first-bolt-app
```

<!-- TODO - Do we want to explain how to install the `pyenv` runtime management in a <details> section? -->
Next, we recommend using a [Python virtual environment](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment) to manage your project's dependencies. This is a great way to prevent conflicts with your system's Python packages. Let's create and activate a new virtual environment:

```shell

> python3 -m venv .venv

Reviewer 2: Interesting -- I've never seen an example prepend the `venv` with a `.`. Is there a reason for this?

Author: This is a good question and I'm open to the best practice. Since I'm new to Python, I spent some time researching the best practice for virtual environment naming conventions.

In the [official Python Virtual Environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) tutorial they using `.venv` for two reasons:
1. The dot file name keeps the file hidden by most systems and editors
2. It avoids naming collisions with `env` that's a common system-level file/command

> A common directory location for a virtual environment is `.venv`. This name keeps the directory typically hidden in your shell and thus out of the way while giving it a name that explains why the directory exists. It also prevents clashing with .env environment variable definition files that some tooling supports.

I documented this reasoning in the commit message details as well 184c80f912c531995059368648401ef4fda6f8c4

Totally open to the best practice, so I'm 100% open to changing it.

Reviewer: I personally don’t use the name .venv (I tend to env or env_*) but it’s a good idea to follow the official document.

Reviewer 2: Interesting. Thanks for taking the time to explain/share this. Learned something new. 🙂

Author: Cool, I'll keep this as `.venv` as well. I learned something new myself!

A side note - I'll add `env_*` to the sample app's `.gitignore`.

Reviewer: @mwbrooks Thanks! Let's have `env*` in `.gitignore`. Having underscores is just my style.

source .venv/bin/activate

> ```

Author: Do we want to do a better job of offering Windows compatible commands?

Reviewer 2: My concern is that the documentation would bloat as a result. 

Questions on my mind: 

1. Do we know what percentage of our devs are Windows users? 
2. Have any Windows users expressed frustration about existing documentation in the past?

Reviewer 3: I was thinking about this as I was reading - the reason I'd err against it is that the guide uses linux commands above as well. But not a strong objection by any means.

To @misscoded, I haven't seen any complaints about this in the past, but we can pay close attention to it in case it comes up in the future.

Reviewer: We don’t need to be creative here. Let’s have a link to venv document. It has a guide for Windows OS users too. https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html

Reviewer 4: > 1. Do we know what percentage of our devs are Windows users?

I think we can get a rough number for this, even specifically to Python, from Slack's internal data warehouse. Let's chat about it in our team channel.

My guesstimate is around 50% of Python usage is Windows. Anyone wanna take any bets? 😛 

> 2. Have any Windows users expressed frustration about existing documentation in the past?

Anecdotally, not much with our existing documentation. But I have seen some confusion regarding assumptions we made in comments when describing import paths. Windows has some unique behaviors there.

I believe it is possible to use commands that are identical on Windows for most things. I'd like to see us try to do this, especially because it is more inclusive of developers less like ourselves. If it does look bloaty and there's not a great way to unify, I think we can re-evaluate at the tradeoffs with those specific issues in mind.

Author: Thanks for the discussion, everyone! It sounds like the consensus is to use Linux/macOS commands in the guide while linking out to documentation for other operating systems.

The sentence above this code snippet links to the [official Python tutorial on setting up a virtual environment](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment). It includes commands for both macOS and Windows. It also links to the [official `venv` docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) suggested by @seratch.

I think this gives most developers what they need to setup their environment without bloating our guide. 🙂

---
</details>

Now you have a public-facing URL for your app that tunnels to your local machine. The Request URL that you use in your app configuration is composed of your public-facing URL combined with the URL your app is listening on. By default, Bolt apps listen at `/slack/events` so our full request URL would be `https://8e8ec2d7.ngrok.io/slack/events`.

> ⚙️Bolt uses the `/slack/events` endpoint to listen to all incoming requests (whether shortcuts, events, or interactivity payloads). When configuring endpoints within your app configuration, you'll append `/slack/events` to all request URLs.

Under the **Enable Events** switch in the **Request URL** box, go ahead and paste in your URL. As long as your Bolt app is still running, your URL should become verified.

After your request URL is verified, scroll down to **Subscribe to Bot Events**. There are four events related to messages:
- `message.channels` listens for messages in public channels that your app is added to
- `message.groups` listens for messages in private channels that your app is added to

> - `message.im` listens for messages in the App Home/DM space

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I'd use "App Home" here. To me, that implies that you need that scope to use the home tab. I'd recommend just changing to "listens for messages in your app's DMs with users"

Author: Great suggestion! I prefer the new wording more as well. Fixed in commit 85e783f

I'll also send a pull request to align `bolt-js` with the new wording.

> - `message.mpim` listens for messages in multi-person DMs that your app is added to

Author: I've also updated _Getting Started with Bolt for JavaScript_ to use the same list https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-js/pull/623

The following example listens and responds to all messages in channels/DMs where your app has been added that contain the word "hello":

```python
import os
from slack_bolt import App

# Initializes your app with your bot token and signing secret
app = App(
    token=os.environ.get("SLACK_BOT_TOKEN"),
    signing_secret=os.environ.get("SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET")
)

# Listens to incoming messages that contain "hello"
@app.message("hello")
def message_hello(message, say):
    # say() sends a message to the channel where the event was triggered
    say(f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!")

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

If you restart your app, so long as your bot user has been added to the channel/DM, when you send any message that contains "hello", it will respond.

This is a basic example, but it gives you a place to start customizing your app based on your own goals. Let's try something a little more interactive by sending a button rather than plain text.

---

### Sending and responding to actions

> To use features like buttons, select menus, datepickers, dialogs, and shortcuts, you’ll need to enable interactivity. Similar to events, you'll need to specify a URL for Slack to send the action (such as *user clicked a button*).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use features like buttons, select menus, datepickers, modals, and shortcuts, you’ll need to enable interactivity. Similar to events, you'll need to specify a URL for Slack to send the action (such as *user clicked a button*).
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, @shaydewael! I'll include this change in the pull request to `bolt-js` to keep everything aligned.

Back on your app configuration page, click on **Interactivity & Shortcuts** on the left side. You'll see that there's another **Request URL** box.

> By default, Bolt is configured to use the same endpoint for interactive components that it uses for events, so use the same request URL as above (in the example, it was `https://8e8ec2d7.ngrok.io/slack/events`). Press the **Save Changes** button in the lower right hand corner, and that's it. Your app is set up for interactivity!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Bolt is configured to use the same endpoint for interactive components that it uses for events, so use the same request URL as above (in the example, it was `https://8e8ec2d7.ngrok.io/slack/events`). Press the **Save Changes** button in the lower right hand corner, and that's it. Your app is set up to handle interactivity!
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, @shaydewael! I've also updated this in `bolt-js` to keep everything aligned.

![Configuring a Request URL](../assets/request-url-config.png "Configuring a Request URL")

Now, let's go back to your app's code and add interactivity. This will consist of two steps:
- First, your app will send a message that contains a button.
- Next, your app will listen to the action of a user clicking the button and respond

> Below, I've modified the app code we wrote in the last section to send a message with a button rather than a string:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below, the code from the last section is modified to send a message containing a button rather than just a string:
```

Author: Thanks again for the suggestion, @shaydewael! I've also updated the `bolt-js` docs to keep things aligned.

It's interested to see the evolution of the documentation's wording 🙂

```python
import os
from slack_bolt import App

# Initializes your app with your bot token and signing secret
app = App(
    token=os.environ.get("SLACK_BOT_TOKEN"),
    signing_secret=os.environ.get("SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET")
)

# Listens to incoming messages that contain "hello"
@app.message("hello")
def message_hello(message, say):
    # say() sends a message to the channel where the event was triggered
    say(
        blocks=[
            {
                "type": "section",
                "text": {
                    "type": "mrkdwn",
                    "text": f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
                },
                "accessory": {
                    "type": "button",
                    "text": {
                        "type": "plain_text",
                        "text": "Click Me"
                    },
                    "action_id": "button_click"
                }
            }
        ],
        text=f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
    )

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

<!-- TODO - Review my usage of "List" (Array?) and clarification of the role of `text` -->

> The values passed to `say()` are now a list of `blocks` and a string of `text`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback string to display in notifications.

Author: 🆘  Python expertise needed!
- In the first sentence, I'd appreciate a review of my usage of `List` (or should be it `Array`)
- In the last sentence, I'd appreciate a review of my clarification of the role of the fallback `text` argument

Reviewer 2: - Yep! `list` is the correct data type. I might consider an adjustment to the first sentence: 

> The arguments passed to `say()` now include a list of `blocks` and a string of `text`. 

I'm not sure in this specific case how helpful it is to point out to the dev what the exact data types are, as they can see them, but just a passing thought!

- I notice that we don't specify this in the BoltJS documentation. Should we? If I understand this right, it will show the value of `text` only for notification purposes, but in the actual client, the blocks will appear? If that's accurate, a potential rewrite (and if not, disregard entirely):

> The value provided for `text` is the message displayed in notifications, since blocks can only be rendered in the client window.

Reviewer 4: We don't explicitly state where Slack will and will not use `text` once `blocks` are supplied. But as of now, it is used in notifications (where blocks cannot be rendered anyway) and I _think_ its available to screen readers. It _might_ be worth stating that its always recommended to use `text` for accessibility purposes.

Author: Thanks for the discussion @misscoded and @aoberoi!

In [this conversation with @shaydewael](https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/pull/71#discussion_r488229309), we decided to revert the paragraph to align with `bolt-js`. That will clear up the awkwardness around `List` and `text`.  As a closing sentence, we mention that `text` can be used as a fallback for notifications and accessibility.

> The value inside of `say()` is now an object that contains an array of `blocks`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback for notifications and accessibility.

I'll make a matching update in `bolt-js`.

> The values passed to `say()` are now a list of `blocks` and a string of `text`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback string to display in notifications.

Reviewer 3: Your call, but I'd recommend leaving the information about `text` out in the first sentence. It reads as a little confusing since there is a string within the blocks array as well as outside of the array. I think it's still sufficient to mention it in the last sentence.

Author: Thanks for the help @shaydewael. I've decided to reset this paragraph back to the original used by `bolt-js`. Then I added the last sentence to clarify the purpose of `text` based on @aoberoi's feedback.

I'll also update the `bolt-js` docs to stay aligned.

> The value inside of `say()` is now an object that contains an array of `blocks`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback for notifications and accessibility.

Fixed in d8218d8

> The values passed to `say()` are now a list of `blocks` and a string of `text`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback string to display in notifications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The values passed to `say()` now contains an array of `blocks` and a string of `text`. Blocks are the building components of a Slack message and can range from text to images to datepickers. In this case, your app will respond with a section block that includes a button as an accessory. Since we're using `blocks`, the `text` is a fallback string to display in notifications.
```

Author: I'll resolve this suggestion because we reverted this paragraph back to `bolt-js`

<!-- TODO - I matched the ordering of the (ack, body, say) with JavaScript. Is this the ideal order? -->
```python
import os
from slack_bolt import App

# Initializes your app with your bot token and signing secret
app = App(
    token=os.environ.get("SLACK_BOT_TOKEN"),
    signing_secret=os.environ.get("SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET")
)

# Listens to incoming messages that contain "hello"
@app.message("hello")
def message_hello(message, say):
    # say() sends a message to the channel where the event was triggered
    say(
        blocks=[
            {
                "type": "section",
                "text": {
                    "type": "mrkdwn",
                    "text": f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
                },
                "accessory": {
                    "type": "button",
                    "text": {
                        "type": "plain_text",
                        "text": "Click Me"
                    },
                    "action_id": "button_click"
                }
            }
        ],
        text=f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
    )

@app.action("button_click")
def action_button_click(body, ack, say):
    # Acknowledge the action
    ack()

>     say(f"<@{body['user']['id']}> clicked the button")

Author: Nit - I matched the argument order from _Getting Started with Bolt for JavaScript_ (`(ack, body, say)`). Is there is a best practice order that we'd like to encourage? I'm happy to update both Python/JavaScript to match whatever order we think is best.

Reviewer 2: I prefer order in which they are used, or alphabetical, but I think matching what the original docs do is fine. It's also likely what I did for the Basics section (assumption, not looking atm).

Author: Thanks for sharing your thoughts, @misscoded. I agree that it makes sense for the Python docs (getting started & concepts) to match the order of the JavaScript docs. Let's stick with that for now!

I do think our docs are a good place to implicitly recommend best practices, such as argument order. But let's save this for a future discussion.

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

> You can see that we used the `action_id` to add a listener for our button action. If you restart your app and click the button, you'll see a new message from your app that says you clicked the button.

Reviewer 3: very nit, but I'd mention that you used the `action_id` with the `actions()` listener or method.

Author: @shaydewael Nice catch. This is a sentence that confused me when I first followed the _Getting Started with Bolt for JavaScript_ guide.

How about:

```markdown
You can see that we used `app.action()` to listen for the `action_id` that we named `button_click`.
```

Author: Fixed in c242d53!

For now, we'll just add one scope: [`chat:write`](https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write). This grants your app the permission to post messages in channels it's a member of.

Scroll up to the top of the OAuth & Permissions page and click **Install App to Workspace**. You'll be led through Slack's OAuth UI, where you should allow your app to be installed to your development workspace.

Once you authorize the installation, you'll land on the **OAuth & Permissions** page and see a **Bot User OAuth Access Token**.

![OAuth Tokens](../assets/bot-token.png "Bot OAuth Token")

> 💡 Treat your token like a password and [keep it safe](https://api.slack.com/docs/oauth-safety). Your app uses it to post and retrieve information from Slack workspaces.

---

### Setting up your local project
With the initial configuration handled, it's time to set up a new Bolt project. This is where you'll write the code that handles the logic for your app.

If you don’t already have a project, let’s create a new one. Create an empty directory:

```shell
mkdir first-bolt-app
cd first-bolt-app
```

<!-- TODO - Do we want to explain how to install the `pyenv` runtime management in a <details> section? -->

> Next, we recommend using a [Python virtual environment](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment) to manage your project's dependencies. This is a great way to prevent conflicts with your system's Python packages. Let's create and activate a new virtual environment:

Author: `slack_bolt` requires Python 3.6 or later. Version 3.6 was released in December 2016, it's almost 4 years old.

**Should we add a `<details>` section to help developers install a compatible version of Python?** In the section, we could help developers [install `pyenv` for runtime management](https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/blob/main/.github/maintainers_guide.md#python-and-friends) and install Python 3.8.

Reviewer 4: Python set up is tricky, and I think the suggestion to help developers install a compatible version is a good one! That being said, I don't know if aligning with pyenv is the best option. First of all, it doesn't directly support Windows, which I believe is much more important to the average Python developer. I've also had mixed experiences getting it to play well with the system Python on macOS - but that was early days maybe the project is well past this now.

What are the disadvantages in comparison to linking to [Python's official download page](https://www.python.org/downloads/)? It does some user agent sniffing to show the visitor an installer for their own operating system. I would expect the PSF to maintain this page with the best general installation option for most users, even if their recommendation changes over time.

Reviewer 3: I would just note that it requires Python 3.6 or later and link out to the Python website, unless you think a significant amount of devs might get tripped up by it.

Author: Thanks for the discussion @aoberoi and @shaydewael. I'll keep it simple and focused by only mentioning that we require Python 3.6 or later (linking to the official download page). Fixed in commit fbea9ec

Preview:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21328/93270522-2eac7380-f766-11ea-89b4-f517ba2a3162.png)

<!--TODO - Update image to match the latest App Directory sidebar (but remove the Workflows beta) -->
![OAuth Tokens](../assets/bot-token.png "Bot OAuth Token")

> 💡 Treat your token like a password and [keep it safe](https://api.slack.com/docs/oauth-safety). Your app uses it to post and retrieve information from Slack workspaces.

---

### Setting up your local project
With the initial configuration handled, it's time to set up a new Bolt project. This is where you'll write the code that handles the logic for your app.

If you don’t already have a project, let’s create a new one. Create an empty directory:

```shell
mkdir first-bolt-app
cd first-bolt-app
```

Next, we recommend using a Python virtual environment to manage your project's dependencies. Create and activate a new virtual environment:

<details>
<summary markdown="0">
<h4>Setting up a Python virtual environment</h4>
</summary>

TODO - This is where we explain how to installing a Python version manager, virtual environment, and adding it to gitignore.

---
</details>

<!-- TODO - Details on installing Python version manager, virtual environment, adding it to the git ignore, etc -->

> <!-- TODO - Do we use python or python3? -->

Reviewer: If a developer is not familiar with Python versions and is going to start with the system python, explicitly mentioning `python3` this way should be helpful. Also, if a developer is aware of the difference between v2 and v3, the developer can understand why it's `python3`.

Author: Thanks for the advice @seratch! This makes complete sense and I like the observation that experience Python developers will understand why `python3` was used. I'll keep this code snippet as `python3` because it is best universal solution.

<!-- TODO - Should we confirm that the virtual environment is active? -->
```shell
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
```

Before we install the Bolt for Python package to your new project, let's save the bot token and signing secret that was generated when you configured your app. These should be stored as environment variables and should *not* be saved in version control.

> 1. **Copy your Signing Secret from the Basic Information page** and then store it in a new environment variable. The following example works on Linux and MacOS; but [similar commands are available on Windows](https://superuser.com/questions/212150/how-to-set-env-variable-in-windows-cmd-line/212153#212153).

Reviewer: nit: in these days, s/MacOS/macOS/

Author: Good catch! Fixed in bf02931daa4481bbd25181371d34a8185e589d46 and I'll add it to a batch of improvements for the Bolt-JS Getting Started guide.

```shell
export SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=<your-signing-secret>
```

<!-- TODO - Fix the bullet displaying 1. -->
2. **Copy your bot (xoxb) token from the OAuth & Permissions page** and store it in another environment variable.

```shell
export SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-<your-bot-token>
```

> <!-- TODO - Is `slack_bolt` called a package in Python? -->

Reviewer: You can call it a "Python package"

Author: Thanks for the confirmation! I made a minor clarification in commit 329260a326f2f402ebbd2102642bb50db3853025

Now, lets create your app. Install the `slack_bolt` package to your virtual environment using the following command:

```shell
pip install slack_bolt
```

> <!-- TODO - Do we want to mention that it will be installed to env/.../site-packages? -->

Reviewer: I don't see the necessity. Just having a link to venv's docs may be helpful for some. https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html

Author: Thanks for the advice. I'll include the link in the virtual environment setup section.

Create a new file called `app.py` in this directory and add the following code:

<!-- TODO - Is it best practice to separate imports and froms with a new line? -->

> <!-- TODO - Is it best practice to have 2 new lines after the imports? -->

Reviewer: We just follow `black`'s corrections in code but in the docs, we may want to have only one line for readability.

Author: Sounds good! We'll stick to only one line for readability in the documentation!

<!--

>   TODO - Should the code sample include the Logger middleware that's common in many of the samples?

Reviewer: In Bolt JS, it is part of advanced topics: https://slack.dev/bolt-js/concepts#global-middleware

Author: Perfect. I'll leave the logger middleware out of the Getting Started guide and we can explain it in the advanced concepts.

  ```python
  # Middleware
  @app.middleware  # or app.use(log_request)
  def log_request(logger, body, next):
      logger.info(body)
      return next()
  ```
-->
```python
import os
from slack_bolt import App

# Initializes your app with your bot token and signing secret
app = App(

>   token=os.environ.get("SLACK_BOT_TOKEN"),

Reviewer: Let's use four space tabs consistently (I know `python-slackclient`'s docs uses two spaces but let's change it for new projects)

Author: Good catch! I was trying to consistently use 4 spaces, but it looks like I missed a few spots.

Fixed in 355c4088223481ba3af08762dfa0591b7a0ad379

  signing_secret=os.environ.get("SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET")
)

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

Your token and signing secret are enough to create your first Bolt app. Save your `app.py` file then on the command line run the following:

> <!-- TODO - Should we make a note that there is no need to use python3 after init a virtual environment? -->

Reviewer: No need to use python3 here (check `which python` and `which python3` in your venv) but consistently using python3 here is also fine. Some may overlook the venv setup.

Author: I like your suggestion of using `python3` here in case the person overlooked the `venv` setup. [Similar to above](https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/pull/71#discussion_r485996698) experienced Python developers will know whether they can safely use `python`.

Author: Fixed in 1aba20a0c26c30a779fd9f00fc59e942d3a18923

If you want your bot to listen to messages from everywhere it is, choose all four message events. After you’ve added the events you want your bot to listen to, click the green **Save Changes** button.

---

### Listening and responding to a message
Your app is now ready for some logic. Let's start by using the `message()` method to attach a listener for messages.

The following example listens to all messages that contain the lower-case word "hello" and responds with "Hey there @user!"

<!-- TODO - Suggestions on the `reply_to_hello` function name? `message_hello`? -->
```python
import os
from slack_bolt import App

# Initializes your app with your bot token and signing secret
app = App(
  token=os.environ.get("SLACK_BOT_TOKEN"),
  signing_secret=os.environ.get("SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET")
)

# Listens to incoming messages that contain "hello"
@app.message("hello")
def reply_to_hello(message, say):
    # say() sends a message to the channel where the event was triggered

>     say(f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>")

Reviewer: Just to be compatible with `responds with "Hey there @user!"` in the guide.
```suggestion
    say(f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!")
```

Author: Incredibly observant and great catch @seratch! Fixed in 0c850c2a73a86d0323ec3d01215fa0ac43f7f498

                    "action_id": "button_click"
                }
            }
        ],
        text=f"Hey there <@{message['user']}>!"
    )

@app.action("button_click")
def action_button_click(body, ack, say):
    # Acknowledge the action
    ack()
    say(f"<@{body['user']['id']}> clicked the button")

# Start your app
if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.start(port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 3000)))
```

You can see that we used the `action_id` to add a listener for our button action. If you restart your app and click the button, you'll see a new message from your app that says you clicked the button.

---

### Next steps
You just built your first Bolt for Python app! 🎉

Now that you have a basic app up and running, you can start exploring how to make your Bolt app stand out. Here are some ideas about what to explore next:

* Read through the [Basic concepts](/bolt-python/concepts#basic) to learn about the different methods and features your Bolt app has access to.

* Explore the different events your bot can listen to with the [`events()` method](/bolt-python/concepts#event-listening). All of the events are listed [on the API site](https://api.slack.com/events).

> * Bolt allows you to [call Web API methods](/bolt-python/concepts#web-api) with the client attached to your app. There are [over 130 methods](https://api.slack.com/methods) on our API site.

Reviewer: We may want to change the number in Bolt JS too.
```suggestion
* Bolt allows you to [call Web API methods](/bolt-python/concepts#web-api) with the client attached to your app. There are [over 220 methods](https://api.slack.com/methods) on our API site.
```

Author: Definitely want to also update this in Bolt-JS. I'll be sending a PR with a batch of improvements and I can include this one.
